# BIOINFORMATICS
#### Copyrith Univeristy of Padova Paper wrote for the bioinformatics course, develope with [Paria Tahan](https://github.com/pariatahan)
## Introduction DNA data storage 
Having access to so much data in this high-tech era
makes the choice on what to act upon or ignore difficult (e.g. Over 12 trillion hours have been spent online, a
landmark in the adoption of the internet, and new records
have been set for social media usage) dat (2022).
Automation, machine learning, big data, and artificial
intelligence tools have not helped much in that, they have
made the process more complicated, which results in a
feeling of overwhelm Alliance (2021).
Big data’s severe effects can be mitigated by examining
the factors that affect it and the data explosion itself. Overall, the first factor in solving this challenge and trying to
make it less critical is learning more about the essence of
data through the study and the use of its nature and frequency. By and large, we need to save data and it evolves
several different approaches to overcome this issue.
The traditional methods such as CDs, DVDs, flash
drivers, and so on can store around 200 GB/in2 data but
are not cost-worthy since they occupy a large number of
physical storage Wang et al. (2019). On the other hand,
data should maintain and the above methods cannot last
long because taps, disks, and other traditional media decay rapidly, in that they can only store data for a short
period of time. One of the state-of-the-art techniques is
storing digital data in Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). We
can summarize this technique in one sentence: "The process of encoding and decoding of binary data to and from
the DNA strands" Ceze et al. (2019). Through this process
we might lose data means either receiving data that is
different from the source data or not receiving it at all. Initially, provided research methods couldn’t retrieve more
than partial data Church et al. (2012).
This review paper aims to gather some of the required
information which is essential to understanding different
DNA digital data storage approaches. An overview of the
current situation of digital storage comes first. The following section will introduce specifically the DNA storage
method, and its challenges followed by an explanation
of its pipeline. We outlook to the encoding, considered
the most important part of this pipeline and related to
our curriculum although we know that other parts such
as synthesis and storing are the same vital. However,
we did not deal with this part of the research due to a
lack of knowledge and decided to leave it to biology researchers. We examined information metrics to evaluate
the suggested techniques. Finally, we briefly discussed
the ultimate aim of all these economics-related research
projects. This review article will conclude with a conclusion and a recommendation for more research.
## Conclusion 
Considering the stock of the current situation, the DNA
data storage is a process that takes into account many
small steps and every step is a brick to build this complex
process. Each of these steps requires a thorough study of
various subjects and therefore the involvement of various
experts in the field. Focusing on this point, it is important
to understand the difficulty in scaling this type of project,
as today there is no figure able to cover all the various
sectors and sciences to carry out the process. This reduces
the speed and limits the process of developing this technology, as various figures must carry out each step.
Taking a more specific example it can be said that two
types of specialists collaborate, the engineers / mathematicians and the biologists / chemists for most of the
research done in this field. However, they do not collaborate conjointly. In conclusion, no real solution has been
found to the problems mentioned above, as a consequence
not many investors are attracted since they do not see an
immediate economic implication.
In addition, today it is not possible to use querying operation on the DNA molecule, consequently, this compromises various problems in terms of timing. So, some
recent papers are trying to implement this important operation, for example analysing the contrast between an
object similar to the one you want to search for, while the
other one is through deep learning techniques to reach a
fast query matching.
Regarding the future, since many papers are focusing on
trying to solve the limits of writing speed on the molecule
large-scale scalability of the storage system is not allowed
given a long time. Another thing to consider just as important as the others are that DNA data storage could
represent a valid alternative to reduce the pollution generated by the classic means of storage, representing a step towards a greener and cleaner future.

